**Indie Development**


Someone emailed me a little while back and said that they don’t have much
[time][1] to program due to having a full-[time][1] [job][2] and asked what
can they do to get into the [programming][3] state of mind so that they can be
productive with their precious [time][1]. Well, I’ll try and answer that in
this post.


**Give up your **[**job**][2]


Sure being more productive with your spare [time][1] is a good goal, and more
on that in a minute, but another way of looking at the [issue][4] is how can
you get MORE [time][1] to do [programming][3].


The most obvious way to get more [programming][3] [time][1] is to give up your
[job][2] and go full-[time][1] Indie! Of course, this path is not for the
weak-hearted, and for goodness sake, make sure you have a runway.


Let’s say you really can’t give up your [job][2] right now, well…


**What else can you do to make more **[**time**][1]**?**


1) Start young when you have parents paying the bills and not many
obligations, and get lots of practice in.


2) Try going part-[time][1] with your [job][2]. Some employers will allow this
and it will give you the much needed [time][1] to do [programming][3].


3) If you go part-[time][1] or give up your [job][2], consider reducing your
outgoings as much as possible by things like:


– Move back in with your parents, share a [house][5], or marry someone rich

– Downsize so you have a PC/Mac in a caravan (knew someone who did this and he
managed to get away with very little [work][6]).

– Get rid of your TV to save money AND create more [programming][3] [time][1].

– Ditch frivolous expenses and stay in more. However, don’t ditch exercise,
healthy eating or spending [time][1] with your kids or loved ones, if you have
any.

– Get rid of your car.

– There are tons of way to save money if you put your mind to it and are
dedicated in the pursuit of your dreams.


**How can you be more productive with your **[**time**][1]**?**


1) Make it a habit. Write down a schedule of weekly [programming][3] hours and
stick to it no matter what. Even if you don’t feel like it, just start and
force yourself to [work][6] on your game for 10 minutes and before long you’ll
be into it and making progress.


2) Try telling everyone that you are going to make a game by a certain date,
and ask them to badger you about it. Public failure = embarrassment.


3) Put on some inspiring [music][7] that makes you [work][6] super fast.
Trance [music][7] and 8-bit [music][7] does this for me. Nothing with lyrics
though or I can’t concentrate on typing code.


4) Keep a proper up-to-date To Do list so that whenever you get a chance to
program, you know exactly what to do next. Floundering and not knowing what to
do is a massive waste of [time][1]. Try keeping a list of some low hanging
fruit (easy [coding][8] tasks) that you can do on days when you don’t feel
like tackling something hard.


5) If you really can’t face [programming][3] then get inspired: play some
[games][9], [read][10] blogs/forums, listen to [music][7], talk to
[friends][11], go out for a walk. But, warning, you may never start! Or you
may go the other way and get so inspired that you stay up crazy late and get
no [sleep][12] and eventually get ill – I did this and it wasn’t pleasant
(worked all day on business software then stayed up until 4am every night
[programming][3] for months until I felt really awful).


6) Make sure you have a definite end goal, and make sure it’s realistic.
Keeping the goal in mind will [work][6] as [motivation][13] on those days when
you most need it.


**Realise it’s a pipe dream and forget it.**


If you can’t motivate yourself to program for an hour or more a day and more
at the weekend then you really won’t make any decent progress. It’s the same
as learning an instrument, or getting good at a sport or martial [art][14].
You need dedication and determination and a burning desire to achieve your
dreams. If you don’t have that yet, then go and develop it. Or just give in
for now, stop punishing yourself, and come back to it later when you are
ready.


Good luck!


What ways have you found to make more [time][1] for [programming][3], and what
techniques do you use to get into “the zone”?

   [1]: time.html

   [2]: job.html

   [3]: programming.html

   [4]: issue.html

   [5]: house.html

   [6]: work.html

   [7]: music.html

   [8]: coding.html

   [9]: games.html

   [10]: read.html

   [11]: friends.html

   [12]: sleep.html

   [13]: motivation.html

   [14]: art.html

